   #alternate alternate

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KJF4

     * Sponsored
          + StoryPlus
          + Sponsored Features
     * Cars
          + CarsIreland.ie
          + Used Car Search
          + Car Dealers
     * Jobs
          + Jobs
     * Dating
          + TheMeetingPoint.ie
          + Mature
          + Gay
     * Deaths
          + iNotices.ie
          + Deaths
     * Fitlive.ie
          + Events
          + Training
     * Hotels
     * Archive
     * Deals

     * Subscribe
          + Digital Edition
          + Home Delivery
          + Newsletters

     * Independent.ie
     * News
          + Irish News
               o News
               o Politics
               o Education
               o Health
               o Courts
          + World News
               o Europe
               o Britain
               o North America
               o US Election 2016
               o Latin America
               o Middle East
               o Asia-Pacific
               o Australasia
               o Africa
               o War On Terror
          + Local Papers
          + Weather
               o Forecast
               o Upload your Weather photos
     * Opinion
          + Letters
          + Columnists
          + Editorial
          + Comment
     * Business
          + Brexit
          + Irish
               o Media & Marketing
               o Budget 2017
               o Rich List 2016
          + World
          + Technology
               o Tech & Gaming
               o Infosec 2016
               o Reviews
          + Personal Finance
               o Latest News
               o Property & Mortgages
               o Pensions
               o Switching Saturday
               o How Much is Your House Worth?
          + Small Business
               o Latest News
               o Advice Centre
               o Your Stories
          + FarmIreland
          + Jobs
          + Commercial Property
          + In The Workplace
     * Sport
          + Soccer
               o Premier League
               o Champions League
               o Other Soccer
               o International Soccer
               o League of Ireland
               o Euro 2016
          + GAA
               o Gaelic Football
               o Hurling
               o Sigerson & Fitzgibbon Cups
               o Ladies Football
               o Camogie
          + Rugby
               o Champions Cup
               o Guinness Pro12
               o Six Nations
               o Other Rugby
               o International Rugby
               o Leinster Rugby
               o Munster Rugby
               o Connacht Rugby
               o Ulster Rugby
               o Schools Rugby
               o Rugby World Cup
          + Golf
          + Horse Racing
          + Other Sports
          + MMA
          + LeftField
          + Greyhounds
          + Sigerson & Fitzgibbon Cups
     * Life
          + Health & Wellbeing
               o Health Features
               o Healthy Eating
               o Fitness
               o Mental Health
          + Home & Garden
               o New Homes
               o Homes
               o Interiors
               o Gardens
          + Family
               o Family Features
               o Mothers & Babies
               o Parenting
               o Learning
          + Food & Drink
               o Food News
               o Recipes
               o Food Reviews
               o Wine
               o Table Talk
          + Motoring
               o News
               o Reviews
               o International
               o Talk
     * Style
          + Celebrity
               o Celebrity News
               o Celebrity Features
          + Fashion
               o Fashion News
               o Fashion Fix
               o Style Talk
          + Beauty
               o Body
               o Makeup
               o Hair
          + Sex & Relationships
          + Weddings
          + Voices
          + Galleries
          + Society
          + Competitions
     * Entertainment
          + Movies
               o Movie News
               o Movie Reviews
          + Television
               o TV News
               o TV Reviews
          + Music
               o Music News
               o Music Reviews
               o Windmill Lane
          + Radio
          + Books
               o Book News
               o Book Reviews
          + Theatre & Arts
          + Games
          + Festivals
               o SummerFest
               o Upload your festival photos
          + Banter
               o Cute
               o Gizmo
               o Videos
               o Trending
          + Coffee Break
               o Competitions
               o Horoscopes
               o Lotto
               o Crosswords
          + Windmill Lane
     * Travel
          + Travel News
          + Reader Travel Awards
          + Ireland
          + Europe
          + World/USA
          + Family
          + Cruise
          + Ski
          + Travel TV
          + Hotels
          + Holiday Deals
          + NI travel
     * Video
     * Podcasts

   Search ____________________ (BUTTON) Go
     * Follow
          + Facebook
          + Twitter
          + Google+
     * Contact
          + Email
          + User

   News Health

   Tuesday 24 January 2017

Single men will get right to start family under radical new 'infertile'
definition

Services could face pressure as World Health Organisation changes global
legal standard

Henry Bodkin

   Published 21/10/2016 | 02:30

     0 Comments

     Share
   Single men will get right to start family under radical new 'infertile'
   definition
   Independent.ie
   Single men and women without medical issues will be classed as
   'infertile' if they do not have children but want to become a parent,
   the World Health Organisation is to announce.
   http://www.independent.ie/irish-news/health/single-men-will-get-right-t
   o-start-family-under-radical-new-infertile-definition-35148750.html
   http://www.independent.ie/world-news/article35148926.ece/cf822/AUTOCROP
   /h342/PANews_P-c689144c-e45f-4315-a211-e710f4b7e753_I1.jpg
     * Email

   The authors of the new global standards said the revised definition
   gave every individual The authors of the new global standards said the
   revised definition gave every individual "the right to reproduce"
   (Stock picture)

   Single men and women without medical issues will be classed as
   'infertile' if they do not have children but want to become a parent,
   the World Health Organisation is to announce.
     * Share
       Single men will get right to start family under radical new
       'infertile' definition
       Independent.ie
       Single men and women without medical issues will be classed as
       'infertile' if they do not have children but want to become a
       parent, the World Health Organisation is to announce.
       http://www.independent.ie/irish-news/health/single-men-will-get-rig
       ht-to-start-family-under-radical-new-infertile-definition-35148750.
       html
       http://www.independent.ie/world-news/article35148926.ece/cf822/AUTO
       CROP/h342/PANews_P-c689144c-e45f-4315-a211-e710f4b7e753_I1.jpg
          + Email

     Go To
     * Comments

   In a move which dramatically changes the definition of in- fertility,
   the WHO will declare that it should no longer be regarded as simply a
   medical condition.

   The authors of the new global standards said the revised definition
   gave every individual "the right to reproduce".

   Until now, the WHO's definition of infertility - which it classes as a
   disability - has been the failure to achieve pregnancy after 12 months
   or more of regular unprotected sex.

   The World Health Organisation sets global health standards and its
   ruling is likely to place pressure on individual health services.

   Dr David Adamson, one of the authors of the new standards, said: "The
   definition of infertility is now written in such a way that it includes
   the rights of all individuals to have a family, and that includes
   single men, single women, gay men, gay women.

   "It puts a stake in the ground and says an individual has got a right
   to reproduce whether or not they have a partner. It's a big change.

   "It fundamentally alters who should be included in this group and who
   should have access to healthcare.

   "It sets an international legal standard. Countries are bound by it."

   Infertility affects one in five couples in Ireland. This radical new
   departure will see infertility redefined from a medical condition to
   the "right to reproduce" and could have public policy health
   implications, according to experts.

   Speaking about the change in the definition, Dr Bart Kuczera,
   consultant with Beacon Health Fertility, said: "As surrogacy is illegal
   in this country it's unlikely that this new WHO definition will be
   adopted in the short term.

   "However, the Department of Health is currently charged with drafting
   legislation dealing with assisted human reproduction (AHR) which will
   regulate a range of practices for the first time."

   These include gamete (sperm or egg) and embryo donation, posthumous
   assisted reproduction and stem cell research, among other areas.

   "Furthermore, the adoption of this WHO new definition could impact on
   potential new government plans to fund fertility treatment for couples
   struggling to conceive," added Dr Kuczera.

   The new definitions drawn up by WHO's international committee
   monitoring assisted reproductive technology will be sent to every
   health minister for consideration next year.

   The controversy broke as the American Society for Reproductive Medicine
   annual congress heard that the 10 millionth IVF baby would be born by
   the end of 2020.

   Official figures estimate that by 2013, 6.5 million people had been
   born using the technique since the first IVF birth took place in 1978.

   Irish Independent

   Follow @Independent_ie

Read More

   Mayo General Hospital Mayo General Hospital

Kenny's local hospital comes under fire

   Independent.ie Newsdesk The failure of cash-strapped Mayo General
   Hospital to collect fees due for treating private patients led to it
   being owed as much as €6.3m at the end of 2015.
   Tadhg Daly, CEO of Nursing Homes Ireland, called on the HSE to ensure
   more people can be moved to nursing homes. Photo: Frank McGrath Tadhg
   Daly, CEO of Nursing Homes Ireland, called on the HSE to ensure more
   people can be moved to nursing homes. Photo: Frank McGrath

People check death notices for nursing home beds

   Amy Molloy Nursing home beds are so scarce in Cork that people are
   checking the death notices in newspapers for spaces, it has been
   claimed.
   Doctors use mammograms to locate breast cancer Doctors use mammograms
   to locate breast cancer

'Self-fuelling' tumours resisting breast cancer drugs, say scientists

   John von Radowitz Breast cancer tumours can overcome attempts to shut
   off their oestrogen fuel supply by making the hormone themselves,
   scientists have learned.

Recommended Videos

   from [logo.svg]

   [INS: :INS]

     * Most Read
     * Most Shared
     * Most Commented

   Barnados boss Fergus Finlay had a salary of €117,951. Photo: Tom Burke

Audits find raft of irregularities in charities  Health

   Doctors use mammograms to locate breast cancer

'Self-fuelling' tumours resisting breast cancer drugs, say scientists  Health

   Mayo General Hospital

Kenny's local hospital comes under fire  Health

   Aer Lingus aircraft on the runway at Dublin Airport yesterday. Photo:
   Colin O’Riordan Aer Lingus aircraft on the runway at Dublin Airport
   yesterday. Photo: Colin O’Riordan

€18m people-smuggling ring involving Aer Lingus staff has 'Italian Mafia
and...  Irish News

   Fine Gael TD Josepha Madigan Fine Gael TD Josepha Madigan

Outrage as south Dublin apartment residents hit for €30m over planning
failures  Irish News

   Mayor of Sligo Municipal District Cllr Marie Casserly and Francis
   Brennan during the filming of At Your Service in Mullaghmore, Co.
   Sligo. Photo: Matt Britton. Mayor of Sligo Municipal District Cllr
   Marie Casserly and Francis Brennan during the filming of At Your
   Service in Mullaghmore, Co. Sligo. Photo: Matt Britton.

Renowned hotelier criticised for saying people in Sligo 'wouldn't work in a
fit'  Irish News

   Ryanair has been criticised for the tweet Ryanair has been criticised
   for the tweet

Ryanair criticised for 'low standards' after tweet about 'immigrants
flying...  Irish News

Boy (7) passes away following tragic road crash that killed young mum  Irish
News

Outrage as south Dublin apartment residents hit for €30m over planning
failures

Trump makes early move on restricting abortions around the world

50,000 Irish at risk as 'shock and awe' deportation looms

Ryanair criticised for 'low standards' after tweet about 'immigrants flying
Aer Lingus'

   Independent.ie

Promoted articles

Editor's Choice

   James and Mary Monahan and inset Kieran Monahan James and Mary Monahan
   and inset Kieran Monahan

Parents of man (21) stabbed to death at house party demand - 'Give us our day
in court'

   The parents of...
   Taoiseach Enda Kenny poses for a photograph at the World Economic Forum
   in Davos, Switzerland. Photo: Bloomberg Taoiseach Enda Kenny poses for
   a photograph at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Photo:
   Bloomberg

Niall O'Connor: The Great Survivor's farewell could be nearing - but Enda's
not ready

   General election...
   People march in protest to U.S. President Donald Trump's inauguration
   in Seattle, Washington, U.S. January 20, 2017. REUTERS/Jason Redmond
   People march in protest to U.S. President Donald Trump's inauguration
   in Seattle, Washington, U.S. January 20, 2017. REUTERS/Jason Redmond

Instead of a call for unity, new president told Americans their country was
broken

   Donald...

Also in Irish News

     *
     *
     *

   Tipperary hurler Darren Gleeson with the Liam MacCarthy Cup in
   September Photo by Piaras Ó Mídheach/Sportsfile Tipperary hurler Darren
   Gleeson with the Liam MacCarthy Cup in September Photo by Piaras Ó
   Mídheach/Sportsfile

Breaking GAA All Star Darren Gleeson now faces trial over alleged €94k theft

   All-Ireland winning Tipperary goalkeeper Darren...
   Dicey 's Garden Dicey 's Garden

'Angry and belligerent' broker loses €60k claim against bouncers after he
was...

   A
   European Financial Forum attendees evacuated from building European
   Financial Forum attendees evacuated from building

Hundreds evacuated from European Financial Forum at Dublin Castle due to
fire...

   The European Financial Forum in Dublin was...
   Stock picture Stock picture

Dad-of-one killed in tragic mountain-biking accident

   A dad-of-one was killed in a tragic mountain-biking accident in Co
   Tipperary.
   The recovered top-ofthe- range vehicles were taken to New Ross Garda
   Station in Co Wexford under a garda escort The recovered top-ofthe-
   range vehicles were taken to New Ross Garda Station in Co Wexford under
   a garda escort

Updated Luxury cars seized from associates of one of the country's most
notorious...

   The Criminal Assets Bureau has seized two top-of-...
   Cristian Diaz admitted sex assaults Cristian Diaz admitted sex assaults

Man jailed for sexually assaulting three girls at Irish swimming pool

   A man has been jailed seven months for sexually...
   Fine Gael TD Josepha Madigan Fine Gael TD Josepha Madigan

Outrage as south Dublin apartment residents hit for €30m over planning...

   South Dublin apartment owners have been left...
   The interior of the Stardust which went on fire on the morning of the
   St. Valentines Day 1981, killing 45 young people. Photo Independent
   Newspapers The interior of the Stardust which went on fire on the
   morning of the St. Valentines Day 1981, killing 45 young people. Photo
   Independent Newspapers

Stardust families claim to have 'significant' new evidence as Government to
discuss new...

   A Private Members' Motion calling for a new inquiry...
   Charles Self Charles Self

Gardaí appeal for information on suspected 'gay-bashing' stab attack on
former Late...

   Gardai have issued an appeal for information in...
   Owen O’Callaghan arrives at Dublin Castle in 2008 to give evidence as a
   witness at the Mahon Tribunal. Photo: Tom Burke Owen O’Callaghan
   arrives at Dublin Castle in 2008 to give evidence as a witness at the
   Mahon Tribunal. Photo: Tom Burke

Findings of the Mahon Tribunal cast a shadow over his career

   Owen O'Callaghan will be long remembered as the man behind some of
   the...

VIDEO: Aer Lingus employees suspected of 'using catering vehicles to smuggle
immigrants into Ireland'

VIDEO: Man arrested after policeman shot in Belfast

   A man aged 36 has been arrested after a policeman was shot in north
   Belfast.
   Armed Gardai protect an estimated €37.5 million worth of Cannabis herb
   which was seized by Revenue and Gardaí at Dublin Port. Pic:Mark Condren
   Armed Gardai protect an estimated €37.5 million worth of Cannabis herb
   which was seized by Revenue and Gardaí at Dublin Port. Pic:Mark Condren

WATCH: Huge €37.5 million drug seizure in Dublin

   This is the massive Kinahan drugs haul seized by gardaí at Dublin port
   yesterday.

VIDEO: 'It breaks my heart' Martin McGuinness tears up as he addresses Derry
crowd

   People in Derry pay tribute to Martin...

VIDEO: Martin McGuinness to quit frontline politics due to serious illness

   Former deputy First Minister of Northern...

VIDEO: 'Not one single patient' in Tipperary hospital that incurred €7m
overspend,...

   The Health Service Executive (HSE) has...

VIDEO: 'Making an Impact' winners make their cases

   Winning presentations at the annual Making an Impact competition...

VIDEO - Crime scene: Man 'run over and received slash wounds' moments
after...

   A man was attacked and run over by a car in...

WATCH: Time-lapse video of Ireland's most impressive mountains at sunset
is...

   A couple who fell in love with the Mountains of...

VIDEO: Street brawl investigated as video of Bell Steel Road incident
appears...

   Police are investigating a street brawl in the...
   Martin McGuinness addressing Nationalists outside the Guildhall in
   Derry after a march. Photo: Brian Little/PA Wire Martin McGuinness
   addressing Nationalists outside the Guildhall in Derry after a march.
   Photo: Brian Little/PA Wire

Martin McGuinness, from IRA man to Sinn Fein minister - his journey in
pictures

Winter snow across the country - Your Pictures

   We asked and you delivered. Here are some of the pictures that readers
   have sent...
   Ex-Taoiseach Jack Lynch and Finance Secretary TK Whitaker board a plane
   for talks with then British PM Harold Wilson in 1966 Ex-Taoiseach Jack
   Lynch and Finance Secretary TK Whitaker board a plane for talks with
   then British PM Harold Wilson in 1966

'As fine an Irishman as there has been' - TK Whitaker dies at 100

   Former secretary of the Department of...
   Sir Bob Geldof at the funeral of former Pogues manager Frank Murray in
   St Paul's Church, Mount Argus.Photo: Tony Gavin Sir Bob Geldof at the
   funeral of former Pogues manager Frank Murray in St Paul's Church,
   Mount Argus.Photo: Tony Gavin

Irish stars gather to say goodbye to former Pogues manager Frank Murray

   Stars from the entertainment industry came out...
   Bina Dinan, Nicole Carolan and Martin Loftus before losing stones. Bina
   Dinan, Nicole Carolan and Martin Loftus before losing stones.

Before and After: What do these ten Irish people look like after shifting
stones?

   Independent.ie's most inspiring weight loss...
   While some certainly proved that money can’t always buy taste, others
   were so stylish they awakened envy deep in our bellies. While some
   certainly proved that money can’t always buy taste, others were so
   stylish they awakened envy deep in our bellies.

In Pictures: Inside the enviable houses of Ireland's rich and famous

   Whether you love them or hate them, it can be...
   Christmas Day swimmers take the plunge at the 40 foot in Dublin
   Credit:Frank Mc Grath Christmas Day swimmers take the plunge at the 40
   foot in Dublin Credit:Frank Mc Grath

Christmas Day annual swim at Dun Laoghaire's 40 Foot

   Family and friends greeting in arrivals hall of Dublin Airport terminal
   1. Dublin Airport, Dublin. Picture: Caroline Quinn Family and friends
   greeting in arrivals hall of Dublin Airport terminal 1. Dublin Airport,
   Dublin. Picture: Caroline Quinn

In Pictures: Christmas homecomings at Dublin Airport

   Javelin Platoon, Recce Company 109 Inf Bn - Merry Christmas to all our
   friends and family from the Javelin Platoon, Recce Company. Javelin
   Platoon, Recce Company 109 Inf Bn - Merry Christmas to all our friends
   and family from the Javelin Platoon, Recce Company.

Overseas members of Irish Defence Forces send special messages home for...

   There are currently 605 Military Personnel serving in...

Irish Farmer Calendar 2017

   By using this website you consent to our use of cookies. For more
   information on cookies see our Cookie Policy Close Cookie Bar

   This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are
   agreeing to our use of cookies. See our Privacy & Cookie Policy

     * News
          + Irish News
          + World News
          + Opinion
          + Weather
          + News Topics
     * Business
          + Irish
          + World
          + Technology
          + Personal Finance
          + Small Business
          + FarmIreland
          + Commercial Property
          + Media & Marketing
     * Sport
          + Soccer
          + GAA
          + Rugby
          + Golf
          + Horse Racing
          + Greyhounds
          + Other Sports
          + LeftField
     * Life
          + Food & Drink
          + Travel
          + Motoring
          + Health & Wellbeing
          + Family
          + Home & Garden
     * Style
          + Celebrity
          + Fashion
          + Beauty
          + Sex & Relationships
          + Weddings
          + LookBook
          + Competitions
     * Entertainment
          + Movies
          + Television
          + Music
          + Games
          + Radio
          + Books
          + Theatre & Arts
          + Festivals
          + Trending
          + Coffee Break

     * Follow
          + Facebook
          + Twitter
          + Google+
     * Contact
          + Email
          + User

   Independent.ie Search ____________________ (BUTTON) Go
     * Mobile site
     * Sitemap
     * Contact Us
     * Terms & Conditions
     * Privacy Statement
     * Advertise with Us
     * Group Websites

   © Independent.ie INM Logo

     * Independent.ie
     * News
          + Irish News
               o News
               o Politics
               o Education
               o Health
               o Courts
          + World News
               o Europe
               o Britain
               o North America
               o US Election 2016
               o Latin America
               o Middle East
               o Asia-Pacific
               o Australasia
               o Africa
               o War On Terror
          + Local Papers
          + Weather
               o Forecast
               o Upload your Weather photos
     * Opinion
          + Letters
          + Columnists
          + Editorial
          + Comment
     * Business
          + Brexit
          + Irish
               o Media & Marketing
               o Budget 2017
               o Rich List 2016
          + World
          + Technology
               o Tech & Gaming
               o Infosec 2016
               o Reviews
          + Personal Finance
               o Latest News
               o Property & Mortgages
               o Pensions
               o Switching Saturday
               o How Much is Your House Worth?
          + Small Business
               o Latest News
               o Advice Centre
               o Your Stories
          + FarmIreland
          + Jobs
          + Commercial Property
          + In The Workplace
     * Sport
          + Soccer
               o Premier League
               o Champions League
               o Other Soccer
               o International Soccer
               o League of Ireland
               o Euro 2016
          + GAA
               o Gaelic Football
               o Hurling
               o Sigerson & Fitzgibbon Cups
               o Ladies Football
               o Camogie
          + Rugby
               o Champions Cup
               o Guinness Pro12
               o Six Nations
               o Other Rugby
               o International Rugby
               o Leinster Rugby
               o Munster Rugby
               o Connacht Rugby
               o Ulster Rugby
               o Schools Rugby
               o Rugby World Cup
          + Golf
          + Horse Racing
          + Other Sports
          + MMA
          + LeftField
          + Greyhounds
          + Sigerson & Fitzgibbon Cups
     * Life
          + Health & Wellbeing
               o Health Features
               o Healthy Eating
               o Fitness
               o Mental Health
          + Home & Garden
               o New Homes
               o Homes
               o Interiors
               o Gardens
          + Family
               o Family Features
               o Mothers & Babies
               o Parenting
               o Learning
          + Food & Drink
               o Food News
               o Recipes
               o Food Reviews
               o Wine
               o Table Talk
          + Motoring
               o News
               o Reviews
               o International
               o Talk
     * Style
          + Celebrity
               o Celebrity News
               o Celebrity Features
          + Fashion
               o Fashion News
               o Fashion Fix
               o Style Talk
          + Beauty
               o Body
               o Makeup
               o Hair
          + Sex & Relationships
          + Weddings
          + Voices
          + Galleries
          + Society
          + Competitions
     * Entertainment
          + Movies
               o Movie News
               o Movie Reviews
          + Television
               o TV News
               o TV Reviews
          + Music
               o Music News
               o Music Reviews
               o Windmill Lane
          + Radio
          + Books
               o Book News
               o Book Reviews
          + Theatre & Arts
          + Games
          + Festivals
               o SummerFest
               o Upload your festival photos
          + Banter
               o Cute
               o Gizmo
               o Videos
               o Trending
          + Coffee Break
               o Competitions
               o Horoscopes
               o Lotto
               o Crosswords
          + Windmill Lane
     * Travel
          + Travel News
          + Reader Travel Awards
          + Ireland
          + Europe
          + World/USA
          + Family
          + Cruise
          + Ski
          + Travel TV
          + Hotels
          + Holiday Deals
          + NI travel
     * Video
     * Podcasts

   Search ____________________ (BUTTON) Go
